Using 'glclient':
----------------

Command-line parameters:
----------------------

Required:
--------

-p port-number: where port-number is the numerically specified network
 port over which the corresponding GLcell element will talk to this
 instance. This should be the same as the 'port' field as specified in
 the GLcell element.

-c colormap-file: where colormap-file is the name of a file specifying
 colors to which each compartment will be mapped as per its value with
 respect to the attribute under observation. These files carry over
 from the GENESIS environment and four are included in the GLcell
 source directory, viz. 'rainbow2','redhot','grey' and 'hot'.

-m mode: where mode specifies whether the current instance of
glclient is to connect to an instance of GLcell or one of
GLview. Possible values are 'c' and 'v'; 'c' is for use with GLcell
and 'v' is for use with GLview.


Optional:
--------

-d directory: with a default value of './', the current
 directory. This is the full pathname of the path to which any
 screenshots, single or sequential, will be saved.

-a angle: with a default value of 10 degrees, where angle is the
angular increment in the drawing of the sides of curved
bodies. Smaller numbers give bodies that are smoother in appearance
but more expensive to render. This value is required to be between 1
and 60 degrees. Any value not between 1 and 60 will be capped to the
closer limit.


Keyboard commands accepted in the viewer window include:

's': cycles through four states of graphics statistics overlaid on the
window and one state of none.

'c' or 'C': captures and saves single screenshot to the path
specified.

'm' or 'M': toggles continuous saving of sequential images, one per
frame, to the path specified. These can be stitched into a movie file
with third-party software such as 'ffmpeg'. Note that this mode can
consume disk-space at a high rate.



Keyboard and mouse bindings:
-------------------------

SPACE key:				Reset camera position and
      					model position and zoom

LEFT mouse button: 			(If pointer over a displayed object)
					Display name and id of object under the pointer

					(If pointer not over a displayed object)
					Rotate camera around model

MIDDLE mouse button or
LEFT and RIGHT mouse
buttons together:			Pan model

RIGHT mouse button or			Zoom model or truck-in camera
mousewheel up/down:  	      		(if minimum zoom reached)

p or P key:				Switch between
					perspective (default) and
					orthographic views

c or C key:				Capture single frame to
       					image file

m or M key:				Toggle sequential auto-capture
       					of frames to image files
